- [snickering]
[zombies groaning]
[all breathing heavily]
AYUMI: Why are zombies here?
- I can't take this!
- [groaning]
- Huh?
What's wrong?
Is it...
TERUO: No, I'm okay for now.
[gasping]
[grunts]
[zombies groaning]
- [grunting]
[shouting]
AKIRA: Sorry, Mom.
Sorry, Dad.
Hang in there.
I'm comin' for ya!
- [breathing heavily]
Charo!
Where'd you run off to, Charo?
[gasps]
Charo, now's not the time
to be humping things!
[laughs]
I was so worried about you!
[muffled speech]
[KENCHO shushes]
[zombie groaning]
[door squeaking closed]
[KENCHO exhales sharply]
It's dangerous to run off
on your own like that.
- I know.
Sorry.
ANJU: But I had to because Mommy
and Daddy are already...
Charo's all I have.
He's family!
[crying]
[banging]
- [gasps]
[zombie groaning]
KENCHO: It isn't safe here.
We gotta move.
Huh?
KENCHO: All right!
I doubt those zombies are able
to climb up that ladder.
Now we wait until
the electric fence
is deactivated.
- Uh, Mr. Kencho?
ANJU: What's that?
[footsteps climbing]
- [snarls]
Who are you?
- You're all goin' down.
- Huh?
- Every day I searched
for a reason to live.
I fell further and further
until I finally reached
rock bottom.
So I'm taking you down with me!
- [groaning]
- Mr. Kencho, no!
[both grunting]
[KENCHO gasps]
KURASUGI: Once you fall
from up here,
you'll be torn to shreds
and become zombie food!
- I need to do whatever it takes
to stop the water wheel!
[gasps]
BEATRIX: There it is!
[groans]
[horse whinnies]
[chainsaw revving]
[groans, gasps]
[chainsaw buzzing]
[grunting]
[gasps]
[both grunting]
[KANBAYASHI giggles]
Curios from
the warring states period
are nothing more than junk,
especially against me.
After all, I did place in
the top four
at the high school
fencing nationals
two years in a row.
KANBAYASHI:
Your samurai fangirling
is no match against
an opponent like me.
- [grunts]
SHIZUKA: Mrs. Tome!
Old Man Hiko!
We have to evacuate the village!
TOME: Shizuka, is that you?
SHIZUKA: It's only a matter
of time before
the zombies break through
this door!
- Look, Shizuka,
I need you to calm down
and listen.
TOME: We're old folks.
We'd have trouble trying
to get out
of here quickly enough.
- [gasps]
TOME: Old Man Hiko
is mostly bedridden,
and it's not like we
can carry him.
It's okay, Shizuka.
Don't worry about us old-timers
who don't have much time left.
TOME: Now get going.
You can still survive.
SHIZUKA: No way.
[banging]
[gasps]
[zombies groaning]
[SHIZUKA shudders]
At this rate Tome
and the others...
[snarls]
[shouting]
Damn you!
Over here, zombies!
[zombies groaning]
TOME: Shizuka?
SHIZUKA: I'm getting you all out
of there!
So please,
don't you dare give up on me!
[zombies groaning]
[shouting]
I didn't analyze the risks!
SHIZUKA: I blame those
happy-go-lucky dorks for this!
- [snickering]
[SHIZUKA screams]
[zombies groaning]
[TERUO snarls]
The door won't hold
much longer!
[all whimpering]
[zombies growling]
- Incoming!
[zombies groaning]
[all gasping]
TERUO: Akira!
- Sorry, Dad.
AKIRA: I haven't done enough
to repay you yet!
[zombie groaning]
AKIRA: I didn't make enough
to be able
to send you any money.
I never took you
on any trips overseas.
[zombie groans]
AKIRA: It's not like
I found anyone to marry yet!
So I won't be able
to give you grandkids
anytime soon!
[zombie snarls]
AKIRA: I haven't done enough
to repay you for everything!
And I'm not apologizing
to your tombstones!
There's so much stuff that
I still wanna do!
So you better believe
I'm repaying both
of you while you're still alive!
[TERUO snarling]
You damn greenhorn.
- [shouts]
AKIRA: Dad?
TERUO: If you want to repay
your folks that badly...
Then make sure you don't end
up dying before your parents do.
You got that?
Good luck, boy.
Take care of your mom.
- Dad.
AKIRA: Dad!
- [gulping]
WOMAN: Come on, it'll be fine.
Let's go to one more place.
I don't want
to go home yet.
KURASUGI: Not wanting
to go home...
Huh, I feel the same way.
Like anybody else,
when I first got married,
I wanted nothing more than
a happy home for us.
But before I realized it
that place stopped being home.
I started spending my time
at bars and Internet cafes
before going home.
My car was the only place where
I felt I could relax.
[knocking]
- I heard Mrs. Yoneda's husband
was promoted to section chief,
and that her family's going
to Singapore.
Now, isn't that nice?
Anyway, we're going out
to eat as a family,
so we'll see you later.
KURASUGI: My relationship
with my wife had gone cold.
I talked to her about once
a week,
and when I did it
was just snide remarks.
I no longer had the energy
to repair my relationship
with her.
I often found myself wondering,
"Why was I working myself
to the bone for a family I
had lost all love
and affection for?"
[engine revving]
That bitch of a wife!
Hell, whenever she talks,
it's to nag me
to clean the bathroom
or get a promotion!
Just shut up already!
- [groans]
[SHIZUKA breathing heavily]
[zombies groaning]
[groaning]
- I finally found you!
- [screaming]
[ATENBO snickering]
I never thought I'd be alone in
a place like this with
a girl like you.
I guess today's my lucky day.
[slurps]
- Lucky?
What do you mean?
- Well, I guess it couldn't hurt
to tell you.
I've always wanted
to force my tongue down
a girl's throat.
- [stammering]
This is worse than any zombie!
- You're not getting away!
What's the big deal?
It's just a French kiss!
It'll be over before
you know it!
SHIZUKA: No, no, no, no, no!
I'd rather be eaten by zombies
than be French kissed
by this creep!
ATENBO: I've never had luck
with women or money.
Nothing but bad luck
all my life,
but that old life changes today!
My luck's finally
turning around!
SHOP STAFF A: Cinque Coperti!
SHOP STAFF B: Where's
that pasta?
- Come on, orders are piling up!
- Uh--
- Well?
- Uh, sette.
That's six, isn't it?
OWNER: All right, look.
You haven't even learned
a single number yet.
So how are you ever going
to take orders?
- Uh, no one taught me how
to do anything.
And besides, they could always
just tell me the order numbers
in Japanese.
Am I right?
- [snarls]
[all speaking at once]
[ATENBO grunts]
Why does everyone have
to be so mean
to me all the time?
[inhales sharply]
[exhales]
I've got the worst luck
in the world.
[ATENBO groans]
All they do is bitch about how,
"That's not how good chefs
should behave."
[smoke hissing]
[fire roaring]
[all screaming]
ATENBO: Ah, this is why I told
them we should put ashtrays
in the kitchen.
[groans]
Looks like I'm getting
fired again.
I really do have the worst luck,
don't I?
[gunshot]
So what if the restaurant
burned down because I forgot
to put out my cig?
- [snarls]
ATENBO: I lost my job
just like every one else did.
I don't know why they all got
so upset at me the way they did!
No matter how you look at it,
I'm the unlucky one
in this crappy situation!
- [snarls]
- Hmm?
all: Hmm?
- Old Man Hiko?
OLD MAN HIKO: Akemi?
[both grunting]
- [gasping]
- [snickering]
[both grunting]
[KANBAYASHI laughing]
- [grunting]
- Not half bad!
[BEATRIX grunts]
I can barely parry her strikes.
Mm?
KANBAYASHI: The only problem
with this baby
is that it attracts zombies
with all the noise it makes.
- [gasps]
KANBAYASHI: So let's make
this quick, okay?
- Why?
Why would you do something
so evil?
- Evil?
What I'm doing here
is justice.
I'm only doing what's right.
[BEATRIX grunts]
- Despite all my efforts
to do what's right,
everyone continues
to complain about me!
KANBAYASHI: Mr. Takaoka,
how many times have I told you?
The glue stick doesn't
belong here.
It belongs next
to the stapler.
Director, why
are you rejecting my plan?
This workplace is a mess!
Section chief, should you
be letting people slide
who make such mistakes?
- Wait, let me guess.
She did the usual again?
Wow!
- Spot on.
It really is exhausting having
to work with her,
isn't it?
COWORKER B: She's self-righteous
and pushy about everything!
KANBAYASHI: Shut up.
That's right!
The only ones who
are at fault here
are you coddled snowflakes!
[grunts]
KENCHO: What have we done
to you to deserve this?
Quit blaming others!
- A victim!
I'm the victim here!
- Huh?
KURASUGI: She has the nerve
to complain that she
was the victim in the marriage!
Who cares if I didn't give her
a call the day she
was giving birth?
KURASUGI: It's not
my fault that I
was stuck entertaining clients!
Ever since that day she's held
a grudge about how terrified
she was by herself!
No matter how you think of it,
I'm the one who's
the victim here!
KENCHO: Figured that's what
was goin' on here.
- Huh?
KENCHO: Look, buddy,
you can badmouth her
however you like,
but answer me honestly.
Have you ever given her even
a single flower
for your wedding anniversary?
- Huh?
- Have you ever thanked her
for taking care
of the house while you're
at work,
or really listened
to her complains
and true feelings?
- Huh?
- Did you ever treat your wife
the way she deserved to be,
as if she were the queen
of your universe?
- [whimpering]
- The reason your wife
lost interest in you
is because you kept letting
her down!
You never made an effort
to love her!
KENCHO: You never gave
her anything,
and yet you expected her
to take care of you!
In case you forgot,
that woman's your wife,
not your mom!
- [snarling]
Shut up, shut up, shut up!
KURASUGI: That's enough
outta you!
- [snarling]
KURASUGI: The both of you
are going down with me
if it's the last thing I do!
[snarling]
- So be it.
If you really wanna go down,
then brace for impact,
'cause here we go!
- Mr. Kencho!
- [groans]
- [grunts]
What the hell is wrong with you?
Have you lost your damn mind?
- What's triggering the zombies
to wanna attack us like this?
Our movements?
Our smell?
Or is it our body heat?
KENCHO: It doesn't matter,
'cause I can mask all
of that by doing this!
[shouting]
- [stammering]
KURASUGI: You're joking, right?
Head first, seriously?
[stammering]
Keep away from me.
Get your hands off of me!
Stay away!
[shouting]
[groaning]
[electric buzzing]
[shouting]
[KENCHO groans]
If you're gonna go down,
don't choose a pit of despair.
Had you chosen the cesspit,
you could have avoided becoming
a zombie snack.
[snickers]
Hah, hah!
ANJU: Uh, don't come near me
until you've bathed.
ANJU: Please?
OLD MAN HIKO: Akemi?
Where did Akemi run off to
at this time of night?
TOME: Old man Hiko.
Shizuka is using herself
as bait right now
to protect us from the zombies.
OLD MAN HIKO: Is that so?
Then what are you all doing
still standing around here?
- What are we doing?
- We're old.
It's not like we can move around
like we used to,
so if we tried to save her,
we'd just end up--
OLD MAN HIKO: Has anything
in our lives ever gone
the way we really wanted it to?
all: Huh?
OLD MAN HIKO:
Large scale projects declined
following
the post-war land reform.
The TPP was looming.
We were unsure
of who our successors would be.
Even so, we desperately worked
our fields
and found a way
to make ends meet, didn't we?
[all groaning]
Typhoons, sweltering heat,
freezing cold--you name it.
No matter how many times
nature beat us down,
we'd grit our teeth and say,
"This is the year!"
We've survived this long,
haven't we?
So who cares about a couple
of zombies?
SHIZUKA: Are you aware
of the recognitive
hyper focalization theory?
- Recog-what?
- It was a study that attempted
to scientifically define luck.
So do you only care
about yourself,
your family,
your issues?
What about your
concern extending
from lovers to friends
to strangers?
Do you care if it's just
for today or tomorrow?
Are you considering
the next generation
or our society as a whole?
SHIZUKA: And when you face
a challenge head-on,
who else do you consider before
you leap into action?
You see, the larger the scope
of your consideration,
the more luck you end up having.
- Showing off how smart you are
is pointless.
Who cares about all that crap?
ATENBO: 'Cause at this moment,
I'm the lucky one!
See?
Too bad for you,
'cause you're the one
with bad luck!
[gunshot]
[bullet ricochets]
[SHIZUKA gasps]
Old Man Hiko?
- [grunts]
- [giggles]
Wow, you are the best hunter.
- [shudders]
That was a lucky shot!
What's one old man gonna do?
[all shouting]
What?
Who the hell are all of you?
- [giggles]
- Anyone who tries
to rough up our Shizuka...
- Gets no mercy no matter what!
- Take this, whippersnapper!
- [screams]
Oh, no!
[screaming]
[blows landing]
[whimpering]
I was so close, dammit.
Why do I always have
bad luck all the time?
SHIZUKA: 'Cause you only think
about yourself
and the immediate present.
And someone as self-absorbed
as yourself will never
be blessed
with any amount of luck.
- [groans]
all: Shizuka!
TOME: Are you all right, dear?
SHIZUKA: I'm okay,
thanks to all of you.
[whimpers]
I'm lucky you all showed up.
[clanging]
[chainsaw revving]
- Wrong-minded people like you
who get in my way
are only good
for becoming zombies!
I'm who's right!
The only one right!
- [scoffs]
[BEATRIX grunts]
In my country it is normal
to toss your cigarette butts on
the ground as you walk.
- [gasps]
BEATRIX: Supermarket cashiers
chew gum
as they serve their customers,
and using a vacuum cleaner
on Sunday is rude,
because it's a day of rest.
On your birthdays you organize
your own party
and treat others to food.
I'm sure everything I'm saying
sounds absurd to you.
However, that was all just part
of normal life back
in my country.
- I get it.
You're also trying to say I'm in
the wrong here.
Well, too bad I don't give
a damn about your culture!
KANBAYASHI: Wrong-minded people
like yourself
are better off just shutting up
and becoming zombies!
[BEATRIX grunts]
- [gasps]
No way!
KANBAYASHI: You took advantage
of the zombies gathering...
[wood creaking]
And used them to destroy
the water wheel
and cut off the power?
[gasps]
But that's crazy.
It's just not right.
It's the wrong way
of going about it.
BEATRIX: That's just it.
There is no perfectly right way
of doing things.
There are all sorts
of people who do things
in their own way and it makes
the world a colorful place.
BEATRIX: Perhaps instead
of pushing what you thought
was right onto others,
you should have stopped
and asked yourself,
"Am I the one that's in
the wrong here?"
Maybe then you would have seen
the world in a brighter light.
- [laughing maniacally]
[zombies groaning]
[laughing continues]
[groaning]
[shuddering]
[sighs]
[laughing nervously]
[zombies groaning]
- This is certainly a problem.
BEATRIX: I don't know how
I'm getting down from here.
- [breathing heavily]
[zombies groaning]
- Dad!
TERUO: Don't open it!
[AKIRA gasps]
TERUO: Do not open that door.
You do, you'll put your mom
and the others in danger!
[shouting]
[TERUO grunting]
[zombie snarling]
[TERUO grunts]
[grunting]
- Dad, please.
[TERUO breathing heavily]
Just a few more
and I should be in the clear.
[groans]
TERUO: You gotta be kidding.
At a time like this?
[TERUO breathing heavily]
TERUO: Ah, well.
Looks like my time's
finally come.
How pathetic.
- Dad!
[screams]
[gasps]
Higurashi?
AKIRA: But why
are you saving my dad?
- Well, you see,
I was thinkin'.
It's gonna take a lot
to bring you down.
So I got to thinkin' how I could
make sure someone as slippery
as you becomes a zombie.
HIGURASHI: That's when
it hit me.
The perfect solution
is the situation we're in now.
[zombies groaning]
HIGURASHI: Listen up!
If you don't want me
to feed your dad
to these zombies,
open that door
and get zombified!
You wanna repay your parents,
right?
Then prove it to us here
and now
by showin' your dad just
how good a son you are!
AKIRA: What?